>> Burke: Let's talk about
debugging browser apps.
I love this subject.
So I would like to propose to you that
JavaScript and web developers have
the distinguished, what's the word?
The distinct capability or
position of writing
code in one place and
debugging it in another.
Can anybody name me any other platform
where you write code in one place and
then go somewhere else to debug it?
I don't think it exists.
So what I mean by that is we write
apps and then we go to Chrome and
we open the DevTools and
we debug in there.
The reason why we do that is because
it's a zero setup debug environment,
totally understandable.
But here's the thing.
If you can get your browser
apps to debug in your editor,
it's a way better experience.
Would you not want to debug your code
in the same place where you write it?
You do, absolutely.
So what we're gonna do in this
next one is do that with Chrome.
So let's go ahead here and
open up a launch configuration for
our debug browser apps.
So I'm gonna hit the drop-down list,
I'm gonna add a config.
>> Burke: And I'm going to make it Chrome.
And I'm gonna make sure that I
have the correct settings here.
So I'm gonna just call this
one Launch Project 3, so
I know which one I'm working with.
And anybody see anything
else we need to change?
Can you see it?
Anybody getting ideas?
>> Speaker 2: The ports.
>> Burke: Ports, that's right,
that's not gonna work.
What port are you running on?
>> Speaker 3: 3000.
>> Burke: 3000, that's right.
And then we need the webRoot,
which is workspaceFolder, which is right.
The URL is correct.
And really, we shouldn't have to do
anything else here for this to work.
I'm gonna go ahead and
open up the terminal and
add another terminal instance here.
Now, the app that I'm running here has to
be started with MP, so here's the thing.
VS code when it opens Chrome is gonna
open another instance of Chrome
because it has to pass in a flag to
Chrome, that says, open in debug mode.
By default, chrome doesn't do that.
So what we wanna do is wanna start
this thing, so let's do that.
Here we go.
So now we're running,
and we wanna debug this.
So let's go ahead and make sure
we've got the right thing selected,
Launch Project 3.
And I'm gonna go ahead and hit the debug.
And you're gonna get
a second instance of Chrome.
And so we get two instances
of Chrome open, right?
One is debug mode.
One is regular Chrome.
We can close this if you get confused,
this is the one we're working with.
And now we can add a break
point here in our app.js file.
So we're using SignalR to retrieve
updates whenever the colors change.
I don't know if you noticed this but
in your app if somebody else changes
the color, your app changes too.
And the reason that works is because
there's a service called Azure SignalR
that I've tied into.
And basically anytime somebody updates
the color, I send that through SignalR,
SignalR are connected to all of you,
by virtue of you opening a connection with
JavaScript, and
it's updating everyone at the same time.
It's just a real time update service.
We can intercept the message coming back
from SignalR by putting a breakpoint here.
Notice that I tried to put a breakpoint
on the comment, and VS code did what?
As like now, you mean this,
it moved it down one for me.
It's trying to help you.
Thank you VS code.
Alright, so we've got a breakpoint here.
So if somebody changes the color actually,
and in fact, it doesn't have to be me.
It should be able to be anybody
that's got the app up and
running that can make a call to
the API that changes the land color.
>> Burke: I'm gonna go ahead and select.
>> Burke: And
it's now broken inside of, VS code, but
this JavaScript is running in Chrome.
So we're now debugging our
browser app inside of VS code.
This is all browser code here, all of it.
Now, here's what's even more
interesting about this.
If we come back to Chrome,
what does it say up top?
Paused in Visual Studio Code.
It's like they know each other.
And check this out,
if we open the DevTools, look at that.
Guess what?
It's broken in the Chrome DevTools too.
The reason why this is cool is because
you can seamlessly move between these
two environments.
You don't have to give up one set for
another.
And in fact, let's just say we
added a break point here, okay?
And then we continued on in Chrome.
What do you think's gonna happen?
>> Speaker 4: It hit the break point.
>> Burke: It's gonna continue on in
VS Code and it's gonna hit a break point
that doesn't exist in VS code, but
it exists in the Chrome DevTools.
So you see how these two things
work together and make for
a very powerful debugging environment.
Debugging browser apps
is a very different,
interesting, and
unique way to think about your JavaScript.
We haven't had this capability so
far as Frontend web developers.